to do.
If they don't do it, they either, one, totally ignore it, or two, denigrate it.
Well, then I like the fact that he never went to university, I guess.
That is correct.
That's how it all got started.
But anyway, I love the whole, I love the verb of the, you were supposed to do, as I recollect, a second book on Shakespeare.
Well, I have the better part of a manuscript on a second book on Shakespeare, but
I've also done a book on Cardinio.
That's The Lost Player, which I have discovered.
Now, where did you discover Cardini?
It's in the British Museum.
It's all in his handwriting.
Can I ask one thing?
Do you mind if I tape record this interview, by the way?
Sure, go ahead.
I'm going to turn it on now because I need your permission to do that.
Great.
Okay, so go ahead.
You found Cardini.
I'm on now, by the way.
Just print X but delete it.
That's okay.
I might turn out to be worse than Nixon.
I just go by the numbers.
That's all.
Yes.
Go ahead.
You're talking about how you found Cardino in the British Museum, you're saying.
Yes.
How did you find it?
Well, it has another name there.
I won't...
tell you its other name, but it has a name put on it by the censor.
And it has no name, but it is entirely in Shakespeare's handwriting.
And it is very characteristic of Shakespeare.
How would you explain?
About half of the play, which consists of two different plots, both of them taken from Cardinio, the story of Cardinio, called The Tale of Cardinio in Cervantes' Don Quixote.
And one plot was handled by John Fletcher and the other by Shakespeare.
Oh, yeah.
Well, he worked with Fletcher towards the end.
He did it in the eighth.
Yes, he did.
And he also did The Two Noble Kidsmen.
That's right.
Fletcher was pretty good, by the way.
Fletcher was an excellent writer, and I'm sure that's the reason that Shakespeare, then living in semi-retirement, chose him.
and you know one of the arguments might be well how come this is preserved in his hand and no other no other place that's a very that's a you might say we stay in the army a piss poor argument because the moment that uh uh hemmings and condell got the uh first folio into print they threw away the needless junk and clutter but like the original
Now, they did not use this play.
Sir Thomas More, which is partially in Shakespeare's handwriting.
Yes, that's right.
They did not use that.
And that's why those survived.
If they had printed those, no copy would survive in Shakespeare's handwriting or, in fact, in anybody else's handwriting.
Because once a play was put into print,
The original manuscript was juttisoned.
It's worthless.
Except for use as building fires or bottoming pies.
I used it for bindings, too.
Yeah, sometimes for padding out of binding.
So anyway, I didn't mean to talk about Shakespeare, but this is fascinating.
Anyway, my focus is bibliomania, but not necessarily in its...
Not in the connotation of the kid they just arrested out in Iowa, for instance, who stole everything.
I am kind of interested in the book collector.
When I say book, by the way, I refer to the whole collector.
It's the whole spectrum.
But collectors who have been responsible and dealers and people who work on the institutional level for helping preserve the achievements, the great milestones of human thought.
I don't mean to be...
about this but there are some very great stories in collecting and this is kind of what i'm looking at and uh and uh great stories interesting stories you you certainly have been involved with any number of you you were talking about texas of course you're talking about jenkins i'm talking about well no i'm talking more about wolf feldman and harry ranson as a matter of fact well yeah their case was uh was very interesting i think i'm the first person that ever wrote
an indictment of it.
Yeah, well, that was really, I have to tell you, I'm going to be straight out.
That's the number one thing I want to ask you about here today.
Well, that's not one of the more important things I have done in the field.
I understand.
I have done a lot of things that have been sort of cataclysmic.
You know, while a person is alive, you cannot attack him in the way I attacked Lou D. Feldman.
Or Harry Ransom, for that matter.
Yeah.
But you cannot libel the debt, and therefore I felt free to use the information that I possessed and that I got from Feldman's former private secretary.
Really?
Who is a close friend of mine.
I see her about every few days.
I mean, she's not, you know, amorously connected.
She's just a close friend.
And she knew a tremendous amount about him and his peculations, which were numerous.
What's your name?
Can you tell me?
What?
Can you tell me the woman's name?
Can I talk to her?
I'll ask her if she'll talk to you.
I'll tell you, because I am interested in how Texas, not only how they did what they did, but I am really interested in those early years.
Aren't you more interested in Jenkins?
Well, you know, the thing about...
Well, can you tell me something about Jenkins?
That hasn't been... Well, I'll tell you.
I just got a letter today.
This is part of the Jenkins thing.
Okay.
Which is still ongoing.
You know he committed suicide.
So they say, the guy in the New Yorker says he put a gun in the water.
Isn't that ridiculous?
Did you read that story?
Yeah, I read it.
He claims it was suicide.
How can somebody shoot himself in the head?
and the weapon be missing and it'd be suicide.
But anyway, that's enough.
There's a wonderful Sherlock Holmes story on that subject.
I don't know whether you know it.
But it involves a man who sets up a guy to be his murderer by writing a bogus note saying, which was in his pocket, asking him to
meet his setup character on the bridge, on Thor Bridge.
And I think it's the problem of Thor Bridge or something.
That's interesting.
You mentioned the letter that you got today.
Yeah, well, in any event,
In that particular story, the suicide who wants his victim to be blamed has a letter from the victim asking him to meet him at Thorbridge in his pocket when they find the body.
And there is no gun, but there is a shot fired from the gun that is in this man's bureau or something.
In any event, he simply rigs the guns with a weight so that after he shoots himself, the gun is pulled out of his hand by a stone and goes down deep into the river.
I think they suggest that in the New Yorker piece, too.
Well, I don't know whether they suggest that story about Thorough Bridge.
No, they didn't, but I think they suggest a similar kind of premise.
Well, in closed, this is from Dorothy Sloan Books.
Did you interview her?
No.
All right.
She's a book dealer?
Yeah.
Now, I understand she got a lot of the junk and stuff.
I was approached about eight or ten years ago by a man named John Laughlin.
I think he's in one of my books.
Have you read about him?
Yes, sir.
Then he's not in the body.
Did you read my book, Great Forgers and Famous Fates?
Yes, I have that.
That's a wonderful book.
Well, C.F.
John Laughlin, the man who forged Jean Lapite.
Oh, yes.
Okay.
All right.
Yes.
Johnny Jenkins.
who was a pompous asshole and who was very pretentious, wore a 10-gallon hat and boots and strutted around as though he actually did not have what he did have, the brains of a retarded paramecium.
And he sold immense amounts of crap to the University of Texas.
I think there was a kickback there.
That's just my thought, but I'm not saying that there is.
Why do you think that they bought, now you say that in your, in your, the antique madness, the auction madness book, particularly in that Feldman thing, that they bought a lot of junk.
Yeah, they did.
Why do you, I mean, were they stupid or they were just, no, they weren't stupid.
They made a lot of, ransom and, uh,
And Feldman made a lot of money, and no stupidity in that, except the fact that if you don't care how you make money, you can sure make a lot of it.
There's no doubt about it.
Now, what makes you so sure that Ransom and Feldman made a lot of money doing this?
Feldman died almost a millionaire, if not a millionaire.
But you connect one with the other, though.
That he made money selling books to Feldman?
I'm just trying to clarify the indictment here, because to use your word, you did say that, you know, you did indict the two in Creighton, and I am interested in following up on that, if I possibly could, if I possibly could on that.
Well, let me, you see, Jenkins is the, claimed to be the successor of Feldman, and he was.
In every respect, he was.
And he was very proud of that fact.
Somewhere I've got a letter that I wrote to somebody in Texas.
I don't know where that letter is.
It's a long letter explaining my relationship with Jenkins and my belief right from the beginning that he was an arsonist.
What happened with Jenkins was that he bought from Lynn and Charlie Everstadt to...
well-known New York dealers in Western Americana, and the West includes Texas, by extension, Texas is part of it.
He bought from them for about, oh, a million and a half or two million dollars, which he borrowed from the bank, the balance of their stock, which comprised the things that the Eversets had been unable to sell to universities.
They were unable to sell them because the universities, either one, already had a copy, or two, didn't want a copy because they felt it wasn't important enough.
So he bought all that stuff, and he loaded it into a truck and took it out to Texas.
He had borrowed the money for this from a bank.
And they put up that kind of money?
Then he'd try, yeah.
Well, because this guy is a natural born native bullshitter.
That's right.
Of the Baren von Munchausen variety.
And then he made the awful discovery that an awful lot of it would be duplicates.
Jesus.
That the universities already had.
Which, of course, he wasn't smart enough to realize in the beginning.
And therefore, he loaded up one big garage, storage garage, with these rare volumes and set fire to it.
That is my opinion.
And he was being investigated for arson, you know, at the time of his death.
Is that right?
But not content with that, he burned another lot.
Well, he had this fully insured.
Oh, yes, of course.
And...
The second lot really roused the insurance company.
I mean, they'd only been suspicious at the first one.
They hadn't come to me, or I could have told them some stories about it.
And I wasn't about to tell on anybody anyway.
I wouldn't be telling you this if he were still alive.
But now, how is it that you have access to this information when you say they don't?
I mean, your sources?
Well, I don't know.
It's just things that you know.
I knew the Everstats very well, and I knew how hard they tried to sell all that stuff before they sold it to Johnny Jenkins.
Well, here's a letter now.
Jenkins had bought the papers of Jean Lafitte, all forged by John Laughlin.
Now, I wrote to Jenkins at the time, and I told him that he was the owner of the biggest collection of forgeries in Texas.
Whereupon, he sold a lot of them to Governor Price Daniels.
another retarded individual who didn't bother to check.
He didn't go to any handwriting expert to find out if these were Lafitte documents.
No sir, he just bought them all.
And then he boasted that he had a big collection of forgeries when he discovered that Jenkins had stuck him.
But Jenkins also stuck
various universities.
The University of Texas has the last letter ever written from the Alamo, which, by the way, was forged by John Laughlin.
And they were very proud of that.
You've examined these and determined
that there were forgeries, right?
Yeah.
I mean, you're seeing this now.
I didn't see the original, but I don't need to.
I can smell Stilson cheese anytime when I even get my nose within 50 feet of it.
And I also know Laughlin's writing and his style and his handwriting.
So they get stuck with the... Yeah.
Now, this poor woman named Dorothy Sloan, who seems to be a very nice person, I've never met her.
She acquired, I think from Jenkins, a lot of his turkeys that he had not sacrificed for Thanksgiving.
These things that she got, she issued some catalogs, huh?
I've seen her catalogs, too.
Yeah, very beautiful catalogs.
Now, as I understand it,
Despite the fact that my book, Great Forgers and Famous Fakes, is readily available to her and has a whole chapter on Laughlin, she apparently did not use that.
And she did not realize that Johnny Jenkins was a sneak, a liar, a cheat, a thief, a crook, a forger, and a few more that you might throw in in addition to arsonists.
Did you ever met the guy?
I never met him.
But he had a very low opinion of me, I hardly need say.
I was the one who had condemned these fine lapide documents as fake.
These guys must really, really be fearful of you.
Because you're the wild card in this.
You're the one element they can't count on.
I'm not corruptible, if that's what you mean.
No, that's right.
I start with that at the outset, but what I'm saying is they fear the fact that, you know, they're trying to put out a Hitler diary and they're trying to put out the Mormon stuff.
Okay, now here's what happened.
See, this is what I have heard, and you will have to check this out with her.
Do not quote me on this, please.
Because it's just what I heard today, and that is that Dorothy Sloan,
authenticated a lot of these forged John Lafitte documents for Simpson's Auction House in Houston, Texas.
One of the documents was sold to a man named Bill Head, and he is now complaining and threatening to sue Simpson.
Now,
A lot of these documents were bought by heritage book stores.
I think that's in, I think that's run by a man named Tom Lingenfeld.
Is that in Texas?
No, that's in Philadelphia.
Okay.
Now, here's a letter that I just got from
Dorothy Sloan, whom I never met and never corresponded with to the best of my knowledge.
I got it just this morning.
Dear Mr. Hamilton, enclosed as a Xerox copy of a manuscript I'd like to be by Jean Lafitte.
This document was sent to me by Mr. Bill Head.
How do we spell that?
H-E-A-D?
Yeah, she gives his address.
Okay, what's his address?
Well, I...
Okay, I can ask, but you can just say no.
No, no.
Well, you wouldn't get an answer, you know, from most people.
So don't be so confident that you can ferret these things out.
I will give you his telephone number.
Okay.
But only use what he tells you.
Okay, sure.
His telephone number is 713-530-5131.
Okay, let's continue with the letter.
All right.
Mr. Head, purchase this document from Simpson's Auction House in Houston, Texas.
Mr. Head, ask me to examine this document to see if it is genuine.
Since this document may become part of a legal proceeding, I advise Mr. Head that he should obtain a legal opinion from you since you are the acknowledged expert on Lafitte.
I sent Mr. Head a copy of your chapter on Lafitte and Great Forges and Famous Fits.
I will be interested to hear what you think about this document.
I never entered this business thinking it would be totally carefree.
Carefree?
Carefree.
What the hell is that sound?
Is that your teeth?
No.
Okay.
No, it's not.
I don't know what it is.
After a while, you get used to these remarks.
Okay.
Take it.
But the past few years have been more than I bargained for.
That poor thing, I want to tell you, if there ever was created by God or by Satan,
any business more cutthroats, more villainous, more underhanded, more backbiting than autograph, manuscript, and rare book dealing, I would like to know about it.
I once talked to Phil Seng, who was one of the greatest collectors of this century.
Sotheby's sold his collection in about six different volumes of autographs, but
He said to me, I'm in the ice cream business, and I've made my money in the ice cream business.
And I always thought that the ice cream business was the most cutthroat business ever conceived.
But now I see that I was wrong.
I perceive that the autograph business is much more cutthroat.
And that came impromptu without any remark from me on the suggestion.
How did she end the letter?
Because I don't know where she ended.
Here's the end of her letter.
I never entered this business thinking it would be totally carefree.
But the past few years have been more than I bargained for.
You know, I feel sorry for her.
Because anybody who sits down and thinks that this is a gentle hobby...
is just uh wearing more of a blindfold than justice ever wore now this is you talking now yep okay don't forget i'm not we're not sitting face to face and i can't see the document so i want to know where the document name is it where you well if it was a document andrew then bargained for she doesn't put it the way i would but i'll tell you the whole history of uh the collecting
of manuscripts and rare books as one of villainy, of lies, fraud, cheating, stealing, and
It is an exciting thing.
It is truly exciting.
You've just given me a wonderful quote, you know.
It is not something that is for soporific bespectacled scholars with gold-headed canes who sit down and...
I was going to say browse, but ruminate over a volume of ancient poetry.
What is it that Poe says, are many a quaint and curious volume of forgotten lore?
It isn't that.
Before you ever get to that quaint, curious volume, you've got to go over the bodies of your adversaries.
Why is this?
Can you give me an explanation for this?
Because there's a lot of money in them.
Is it money?
Just money?
No, no.
Oh, no.
You've got to have the damn virus in your blood.
Once you get poisoned by the love for rare books,
I'll tell you something.
This is exactly the stuff I want to talk about, by the way.
You're doing wonderfully.
That's why I'm not asking any questions.
I'm just letting you talk.
John Fleming said to me, John Fleming had just come back from an auction sale in London.
And he said, we were sitting, finishing off a bottle of booze,
I quit drinking about three years ago, so I'm one of these uninteresting teetotalers now.
And he said, I bought a letter of John Keats.
I said, what did it set you back?
He said, $27,500.
I said, it must be a good letter.
He said, no.
In fact, it's a very poor letter.
It's only a two-page letter to his sister, Fanny.
His sister, Fanny, has the same name as Fanny Braun, but not Braun for her last name.
And he said, Keith just talked about how he hasn't been feeling well.
So I said, John, why in the hell did you pay $27,500 for him?
He said, oh.
He said, uh,
Uh, I called up, uh, oh, let me think of the guy.
He's a New Jersey collector, a very pompous man.
Um, well, anyhow, I'll think of the name later, maybe, and if I do, I'll tell you.
He said, I called him up, and, uh, you know he's the great Keats collector, now that, uh, Forsheimer's gone.
I said, yes, I know that.
He said, well, I called him up and told him I was going to London, and I'd be delighted to bid on this letter for it.
And he said, no, I have engaged somebody else to bid on that.
So I said to myself, this is John Speedy, I said to myself, isn't that tough for you?
I'm going to get that letter, and you're not going to have it, and I don't care what I pay for it.
He said, that explains why I paid so much for it.
Well, it was a genuine letter, though.
Oh, yeah.
The letter was fine.
But in one of my books, I think it's in Great Forges and Famous Spakes, I'd tell a story about Dr. Rosenbach.
I'm sure you've read about him.
Oh, indeed.
I've been down to interview Ed Wolfe, by the way.
So I already talked to Edwin Wolfe in Philadelphia about his Rosenbach book and stuff.
So go ahead.
Tell him about the doctor.
Okay.
So...
Fleming acquired Rosenbach stock.
And I was doing this book on forgeries, and I said, John, have you got any old forgeries kicking around that I might be able to allude to or use in my book?
And he said, do you want something of cozy?
I said, yes, please.
I said, I have a huge supply of cozy stuff, but I need more.
and more and more.
He said, just a minute, I got something.
So he got up and he brought me an envelope and it said, Poe Forgeries by Cozy in that tiny cramped handwriting of Dr. R. And I said, who wrote this?
He said, why, Dr. R wrote that.
And I pulled out one of them and it was Poe's handwriting.
And I
I said, may I take these with me?
He said, you can have them.
Charles, take them with you.
You can keep them.
So I went back to my office before calling him, and then I called him, and I said, you have two genuine letters of Edgar Allan Poe.
And he said, what are they worth?
And I said, between $5,000 and $10,000 for the pair.
This was a long time ago.
And John said, well...
Do you want to bring them back?
Do you want me to send over for them?
And I said, John, since I discovered that they're opposed, maybe you'll let me sell them for you at auction.
He said, sure, go ahead.
And I think they brought something like $7,500 or $8,000.
But you see, Dr. Rosenbach thought they were forgeries.
That confirms what a lot of people say about Dr. R is that he was a big showman, but he really...
He was very much like Johnny Jenkins and like Lou D. Feldman.
You know, as some people have said, you couldn't compare him.
He and Krauss, for instance, Krauss was a bookman who knew books up and down.
I never liked Krauss at all.
Have you looked at his book?
It's a pompous book, yeah.
Pompous is hardly the word.
Why I will be remembered.
You know, I'll tell you something about that.
The only other man who ever did anything that insane was Nietzsche, who wrote a chapter.
Why I am such a great man.
Look at the wonderful things I've done.
Yeah.
But he spent all that aside.
He was very knowledgeable.
I did not think so.
Really?
I never found him to be knowledgeable.
I found him to be loud-mouthed and reasonably ignorant.
I know that there are some fairly knowledgeable people in this field.
Who do you respect?
Let's start with that.
What?
Who do you respect as knowledgeable?
Well, I think very highly of my friend Ken Rendell because... I'm going to see Ken Friday, by the way.
Yeah.
And I think quite highly of Mary Benjamin, too.
I just got a letter from her today.
She's supposed to be quite an interesting person.
I think I'll have to get in touch with her.
And I think quite highly of Paul Richards.
I just saw Paul at the New York Fair.
I was down at the New York Fair.
Has he taken off any of that weight?
No.
No, he hasn't.
In fact, we're going to go up to Gardner and see him in a couple of weeks.
He's up in Gardner now.
So I've been hitting all the autograph guys lately, which is very interesting.
Well, you'll find that they are an interesting guy.
Are you a cynical man, Mr. Hamilton?
No, I'm not.
Why do you say when you talk about cheats and lies and fakes?
I was just saying to my secretary,
my assistant, about an hour or two hours ago, I said that the tragic flaw in my character is that I trust everyone.
And I do.
I trust people.
And I do not denigrate living people.
It is just a policy I have.
Now, did you know Lou Feldman?
Yes, I did.
Because you really, you really... I knew him.
I have to say, you tear him apart in this book.
Yeah, he was a disgusting individual.
Why do you say that?
Well... See, I never knew him.
I knew nothing about him.
First of all, he was extraordinarily pompous.
And when he bit at auction, he used to yell, Up!
Up!
And I used to think, up you two, you bastard.
Because he had such an air of scorn about him.
His lips were constantly curled in contempt.
Contempt of worms like you and me.
Ah, but important people like Krauss would cause a little smile of congeniality and comradeship to come over his lips.
because he and Kraus, believe me, were fired in the same kiln.
The difference between them was only in the name.
They were very, very much alike.
They were both bullslingers.
And Kraus never had any interest in anything that didn't have dollar signs on it.
If you read his book, that's all you're going to see is dollars.
Yes, that's a fact.
And yet, you have been talking to me now for half an hour that, by the way, I can ill spare, and I don't think at any time I've mentioned money.
No, you haven't.
Because I never cared about it.
That's the reason I'm so poor and why I went bankrupt, because I never cared about money.
I saw your fee schedule.
I said, which I think is very reasonable.
I mean, you're the best in the world at it, so...
But that's... So let's nail down now this... Can we go back to Lou Falk?
Did you ever have any dealings with him?
Did you ever cross each other's paths professionally?
Yes.
When I first started in the autograph business as a dealer, I had been around autographs from the time I was nine years old.
When I first started as a dealer about 1949 or 50,
I had a beautiful six-page letter of Mark Twain in which he described writing his book Roughing It, and he wrote a mock introduction for roughing it that was hilariously funny.
And I offered this to Feldman for $35, and he wrote me a nasty letter saying that I had overpriced it and why didn't I learn something about my merchandise before I offered it around and so on and so forth.
And with that letter, he made an enemy of me.
However, I was not an active enemy, as I am never an active enemy.
I just didn't like the man.
But I continued in a desultory sort of way to do business with him.
And he had a customer for Conan Doyle's stuff.
Yeah, he was supposed to be, I thought I was supposed to be an expert on that.
Yeah, but he didn't know anything about Sherlock Holmes or Conan Doyle because I talked to him a number of times and he had a very extensive knowledge of almost nothing relative to Sherlock Holmes.
And I, who had read the stories,
at least half a dozen times each, and who was familiar with Conan Doyle's life and who was a very close friend to Basil Rathmore, who, by the way, hated Holmes, I think without any good reason.
I once said to Basil, I said, you've got a nerve to hate the man who's made you immortal.
But, of course, Rathbone was all wrapped up in Shakespeare, which was the reason why we liked each other, I guess.
Anyhow, I never respected his knowledge, and I never found out from whence it was derived.
You say in your book you could never understand how the New York Public Library, for instance, would give their option bids to Feldman.
No, that was a terrible error because, of course, he cheated them out of tens of thousands of dollars.
Do you know this or do you say this?
Oh, no, I know it.
How do you know this?
I know that because when Feldman was in the auction room, you knew that the prices were going to be out of line.
Now, it is a very simple thing to do to commit such a fraud if you're dealing with a retarded person like a librarian.
For example...
If the library says to you, Mr. Hamilton, we would like to get a manuscript that's coming up for sale, it's an eight-page manuscript of Wilkie Collins, which appears to be the, I'm making this up, the first hint of a,
detective novel that he never got around to write, and it predates by about five years, The Woman in White.
So we think, you know, it is quite important.
What do you think it will bring?
So I find that the auction house has an estimate of $400 on it, which is a record price for Wilkie College.
So I say, well,
I'll tell you, I checked around and I found out there was a lot of interest in it, and I think I may be able to get it for you for around $5,000.
Jesus.
So, they say, Jesus, that's a lot of money, like you did.
And you say, yes, but think of the importance.
It will go marvelously with your Dickens-Collinson, because you know how close Collins and Dickens were, and so on.
So...
They okay that.
Then I go to the auction and my sidekick in another part of the room bids me up.
Without me bidding and without my assistant or sidekick bidding me up, it would have been sold for $3,500 and I would have received by 10%, $35.
However, we bid it up to $6,000.
And I then get a commission of $600, of which I give $50 to the guy who bid me way up to $6,000.
And then I call up the library and I congratulate them on this magnificent acquisition of this unique Wilkie Collins document.
That is the way it's done.
And you say this is what they did with Texas as well?
No, no, no.
They didn't do this with Texas.
With Texas, Ransom had the right to put through any purchase he considered suitable.
Therefore, when Joe Shlobotnik, the rhymester who is so good at blank bursts and who doesn't know a sonnet from a triolet,
uh down in Greenwich Village uh decides he is going to sell all his fine manuscripts all the manuscripts of his great poems Slobotnik would go to uh Lou D Feldman who would say look this stuff is all crap this isn't good poetry this is terrible stuff did you get any of it published guys say yeah I had one
poem published in my high school annual in Hoboken.
That is a hypothetical story.
It's a hypothetical story, but this is exactly what they did.
And if you doubt me, take a look at their archives there.
So Feldman would shell out the $40 or whatever it was for the entire collection.
Then he and Ransom would promote the collection to the University of Texas, and they would sell it for $25,000.
The complete literary works, all in manuscript, much of it never published.
Joe Slobotnik, the distinguished Greenwich Village poet who has...
by the, in the view of all critics, taken over the position once held by E.E.
Cummings, who also lived in the village.
I think Cummings lived on that, what's that, McDoodle, something or other down there.
As did Mary Ann Moore.
Can I ask you a question?
Is this the scuttlebutt you hear in the circles, or do you say you know this for fact?
No, this is the stuff I get from Feldman's secretary.
Did she actually tell you this stuff?
Yeah, she knew what he was doing.
She wasn't loyal to him at all?
Why should she be?
He was brutal to her.
Oh, the man was a despicable man.
I mean, brutal in what respect?
You didn't pay her or you didn't treat her well?
You didn't treat her well.
And she told you this stuff after he was dead or while he was alive?
She told it to me while he was alive.
And, uh,
I never did anything with it.
I'm not going to, I don't say anything about living people.
I don't like, I don't think that's, you know, it's not proper.
It's not government.
It's not too safe either.
No, when a person is dead, then their spirit can pay the reckoning.
But I'm not going to tax a living person.
Now, did you have any dealings with Harry Ransom while he was alive?
I never knew the man.
I don't know anything at all about it.
That's what I've said.
Okay, but what you're suggesting then about ransom making a killing is what you've heard from the secretary.
Yes, and also it is something that's well known.
Even the University of Texas admits it.
Well, I just spent four days down there, and I couldn't get them to admit anything like that.
You know, I mean, I tried.
You tried, and they wouldn't admit it?
They wouldn't even let me see the letters.
I wouldn't recognize it.
Why, of course they would, because they've got nothing to hide.
Well, they're trying to project an image now of a major international research library, which in many respects they are.
You certainly have to say that everything isn't worthless in that library.
I don't think you mean to suggest that, do you?
Oh, I certainly don't.
They have a wonderful collection.
But they did buy a lot of junk.
They bought a lot of bogus stuff from Jenkins.
Jenkins did a lot of printing.
As you know, you evidently aren't very familiar with that case, and that is a great case.
Well, the thing of it is, I haven't been pursuing it.
The stories I am pursuing are stories that really haven't been written.
The Jenkins case has been done in The New Yorker, and I almost feel that I'll be covering territory.
that's been covered, but, you know, you did give me some very interesting leads at the beginning.
Well, the New Yorker never talked to me, and they lost a major source of information.
For example, the first catalog I ever got from Jenkins was devoted entirely to John F. Kennedy, and more particularly, it was 90 percent autographic.
And a careful examination of this catalog revealed that not one single example of John F. Kennedy in this catalog was genuine.
That they were all secretarial fakes or auto pens.
I never wrote to him about it because I didn't want to hurt his feelings.
He was new in the field, and I thought, my God.
But it was a unique catalog.
After all, you've got to admit, a catalog devoted to John F. Kennedy with not one single authentic item in it is quite a feat.
That's right.
What does that have to, I'd imagine?
And this has never been disclosed?
Unless by me.
I don't think I... No, it wouldn't have been by me because when I did my last book, Jenkins was still alive.
I make it a policy never to write about living people.
Okay.
Now, did you say you'd tell me the name of the secretary?
No, I didn't.
What are you trying to do, put words in my mouth?
Don't do that.
No, I didn't do that.
I put a question mark on the end of that.
All right.
I didn't say that.
Okay.
You should listen more carefully.
No, I said, did you?
Okay.
No, I don't.
But you don't.
Let me ask you a question.
Would you tell me who she is?
No, I said I would ask if she would talk to you.
Don't you remember that?
Yes, sir.
Okay.
Play back your tape.
One thing about me is you have to remember that I'm in court all the time and it's testifying as an expert witness in handwriting and I have to match what sparse brains I have against some of the greatest legal minds in the country because a lot of the cases that I'm involved in involve countless millions of dollars and therefore you have wonderful legal brains.
and these legal brains under cross-examination really probe and push and twist and they try to try to establish that you don't know what you're talking about and that you contradict yourself and you have to be very careful and that's why
When I tell you anything, I remember what it is anyway.
That's good.
And I'm not so slow.
And I respect that.
Okay.
Now, let's go back to one other thing.
And tell me when you want me to quit, by the way, because I've had you for close to an hour, and I don't want to overextend my welcome because I want to talk to you again.
Well, what I would like you to do, if you will, is look at some of my books.
Okay.
Scribbers and Scowgles.
Which I have, by the way.
All right.
And Great Forgers and Famous Fakes.
Which I have.
And Auction Madness, which you have, I think it.
Right.
And... Let's see.
I'm trying to think of the ones that have cases here.
And the final one, Collecting Autographs and Manuscripts.
Right.
I have that one, too.
All right.
Now, those books will give you...
some of the more interesting cases that I've been involved in, although I've been involved in many, many cases since those were written, like the Mormon murders, and that I would be willing to talk to you about.
I talked to
a couple of the writers on the subject, and I furnished them with an entire carton, a big carton of papers.
And I didn't even go over the papers.
I told them to put down what they could find.
I didn't care whether it was pro or con me.
because I really don't have anything to hide.
And I've just completed a book on the Hitler Diaries.
That should be fascinating.
Hugh Trevor Roper said it was spectacular, and you blew him out of the water, as I recall.
If you like, I will let you look at the manuscript cover.
It's going to be published by the University of Kentucky.
Oh, really?
Great.
Maybe the next time we're down in New York.
It's highly interesting.
It really is.
It's...
It's the greatest forgery of all time, in its effect.
In its effect?
Yeah.
You pretty readily determined that it was a phony, though.
Instantly, yeah.
By content as well as by... No, I never knew the content.
I never knew anything about it, except that I was allowed to look at three pages, three zeroes pages.
And right off the bat, you said phony.
Instantly, and you'll see why if you look at my book.
I can't wait to see it.
It sounds fascinating.
One final, give me another quote on that you were characterizing the type of person who gets this.
You called it a pox or a malady or a virus, I think you called it.
And I am interested, because you have observed some of these people and you've given testimony, what is it that gives a person this madness for paper or for books, for manuscripts?
What is it that moves a person to want to possess these things?
Do you have a sense of that, I wonder?
Yeah, it gives you a feeling of power.
Let me tell you what a Jewish collector said to me one time.
First of all, a great many Jewish collectors are interested in Nazi autographs.
I don't know whether you're Jewish or not.
Greek, as a matter of fact.
And they're especially interested in the villainous characters.
It's a strange, isn't it?
Yes.
And I said to a Jewish collector one time, look, you're a...
a Jew in every sense of the word.
You go to synagogue and you practice all the rites and everything.
How is it that you can tolerate owning a portrait of Henry with his handwriting on your wall?
Doesn't that rub you the wrong way to have that human monster decorating your living room?
And he said, it's like the hunted having the head of the hunter on his wall.
And you know, you understand that.
It's as though the deer
could gore a man to death and then put the man's head and his empty rifle up on his walls.
It is that feeling of power that it gives you.
You have a power over these dead people.
Whether it's a book, let's say it's a first edition of Adonias by Shelley.
Okay.
That book is worth today, $15,000.
It's published, I believe, in my memories, right?
That book, as you pick it up and read it, you are reading these great lines in a life like a dome of many colored glass stains of white radiance of eternity.
And you're reading the lines as they were born.
You're in on the birth of this great poem.
And you're holding it in your hands, and you want it.
That's yours.
And it just gives you a thrill.
It gives me a thrill.
I can tell you, two weeks ago, I was out in Princeton, New Jersey, and I was with William Scheide.
He's not writing, but at the Scheide Library, not if you know him.
At least he's the only private owner of a Gutenberg Bible.
It's on the campus of Princeton University, but it's three generations of the Scheide family.
And that man went and he took out this, and it's original binding.
Oh, my God.
Are you sure of that?
Oh, no, this is the C-H-E-I-E-E.
Very famous.
In fact, the Glowier Club just had a major exhibit of this stuff, 125 years in the Scheide Library, which is where I met him when they went out there.
But I mean, the man let me hold this Bible.
Are you strong enough?
I almost felt like fainting.
I mean, I was light-headed, you know.
I was feeling the hold in the first puff.
It was imprinted.
And it was a dizzying sensation.
It really was.
It's what you just described, you know.
And it's quite amazing.
How about yourself?
Do you collect things?
Do you get the bug?
Well, I used to be a collector.
But I can't afford it anymore.
But I know exactly how it feels.
It's an incomparable field.
As Rosenbach said, it's the second most exhilarating of all sports.
And there are a lot of people who would put it first.
You know Carlton Lake down in Texas?
You ever heard of him?
He's got a new book coming out from New Directions.
He put together that French collection down there.
He's from up here in Boston right back there.
He struck a deal with Harry Rance to get a job down there.
They're actually his curator in that collection.
He uses that exact same quote, and he said, but most of us would reverse the order.
It's not the same.
A lot of people have.
I got a letter from a guy a couple of years ago who said that he found my books more exhilarating than sex.
That was very nice.
Well, that's quite a compliment, isn't it?
Yeah, so I'm really looking forward to the Cardinio book, by the way.
I thought the job you did on that Shakespeare book was really, pardon my Greek, but it took some balls to write that.
Yeah, and it takes even more to do the Cardinio.
That is something that, despite the fact that it's in, well, it's in the same handwriting as the guy who wrote the will.
And there's no question about that in your mind.
None at all.
Not any.
Because you're going back now.
The reason I say that is you're going back 400 years, you know.
Yeah, but I'm dealing with a subject that I know, and that is handwriting.
And that is constant through the ages.
Is that correct?
Yes, yes, it is.
Of course, Shakespeare had many different handwriting, but that's not a very important factor.
What I was impressed by is that, on the one hand, they say there were only six examples of his handwritten, and then Mr. Thomas Moore gave me the six.
You say there are so many.
Oh, there are dozens.
They just haven't had the courage to authenticate them where the state is.
Well, they insist that the will was written by Francis Collins or by his secretary or Emanuelsis, but the facts show otherwise.
I think that's a fascinating piece.
Okay.
Well, I've bothered you from Florida now.
Unless you want to tap on, I'll let you go.
I know your time is valuable.
Can I call you back, sir?
You're worried you're going to run out of tape.
No, I'm just looking.
You know, you're amazing.
I'm looking at it.
It's ready to run out on the side.
I'm going to switch it over in the other minute and second.
No, I'd love to keep talking.
Yeah.
I don't think she will let you, but she might.
Oh, no, I don't know that she...